---
layout: post
title: First Day At IITB 

image: /img/FirstDay Cropped.jpg
bigimg: /img/Library.jpg
date:  2020-04-07 11:51:00 +05:30
---

This is a blog written by my good friend Gagan Jain.
Heres the link to his blog:- [TheSmilingSky](https://thesmilingsky.github.io/blog/blog)
I havent written this ; but somehow all of it is so relatable and almost feels like my own story.
So give it a read, chances are if youre within AIR 500-1000 you will relate more to this.

Hey everyone! Welcome to my first blog post. I do not even know since when was I wishing to have a blog page. I constantly kept writing but all of that was restricted to my Moto E3’s ColorNote. But, now I will start publishing my writings here whenever I feel like doing so. With no further discussions, here’s the post I wrote on the day I had my first class at IIT Bombay. Since I started writing properly after I reached here, this is a long one. You have been warned!

#### 22:37 hrs, July 25th, 2018
So, today was my first day at IIT Bombay! A plethora of emotions going through my mind right now. I clearly remember the day when I planned that I wanted to go to Kota for JEE preparation. The enthusiasm, the spark, the confidence; I remember all of it. Soon, I was staying up till 2 in the night and preparing for my periodic tests. Two years of struggle, everything for 6 hours of an examination. The clock struck five and I was out of the examination hall, with an anxious and quiet look on my face. Before my dad could ask anything, I murmured “Don’t ask questions” and went back to my silent mode. Now when I think of that moment, I feel I acted like Aunt Petunia for a split sec. After a few days of silence in the house, I finally logged in to jeeadv.ac.in and announced in the house “AIR 572”. My mom and sisters had appreciating expressions on their faces, but my dad had a mix of appreciation and disappointment on his face. I myself did not feel anything about it, neither great nor sad, because I did not set a target rank while preparing (I consider this a big mistake), so I felt whatever I got was acceptable. But I was clear on one thing, I could have done better.

Soon, my home had turned into a court with my father and sister discussing (rather arguing) about college and branch options, and obviously I had no clue about any of it. I was silently scrolling through various sites, taking reviews from people, trying to figure out whether I am interested in doing this or that and whatnot. My father strongly supported that I should take CSE in the best college which I could get with my rank. My sister, on the other hand, had the opinion that college and location also equally mattered and I should not end up in a place that will not allow me to grow and develop. To me, my sister made more sense logically. Most of the reviews, though, were in favor of taking CSE in some college. I was most surprised by the fact that most of my friends who had never even printed a “Hello World” on their screen were showing their deep love for Computer Science and blindly going for it. I myself had never tried coding at all. So, I finally decided to have a try before making a decision. I started with some random tutorials on Python and was not very impresses by the limited practice I did there. So, I had a decision in my mind - I’m gonna go for CSE if I get it in the top seven IITs, else I’ll prefer a better college with some other branch.

The counseling began and I filled CSE in the top seven IITs and then EE in some IITs (which I made sure I would not get coz I was not very fond of Electrical Engineering judging by the limited content I had studied till then). Then came the choice which I almost knew would be my future for the next four years - Mechanical Engineering, IIT Bombay. Now, I’ll save my justifications for putting in Mechanical Engineering for some other post. My dad was not particularly aware of this and was hoping that I would get CSE in some IIT I filled above. But, a few rounds of Counseling made everything clear. I could clearly see that my father was not very happy with my decision, which made me feel a little more insecure and terrified. I kept wondering for long if this was another mistake I made? With these thoughts in mind, I did not enjoy the little vacation I had before the college start apart from a road trip with friends to Indore and nearby places.

Finally, I boarded the train to Mumbai with my parents and reached Mumbai, for the first time in 8 years. We stayed at our relative’s place for a couple of days and finally I came to Institute for the first time on 22nd and got a new address, Room No. 405, Hostel 15, IIT Bombay. We kept my luggage and my mom & dad arranged everything in its proper place (It’s only been a couple of days since then and the room is all messed up :p). After arranging everything in one half of the double-occupancy room, we went back to our relative’s place coz the Orientation was on the next day. We came back to the campus the next morning, met my roommate Utkarsh and the fact that he’s from Hoshangabad (which is also in MP) comforted my and his parents a little for reasons I did not understand.

Then we left our hostel for the Orientation. All the parents had to attend the live recording of the orientation in the LCH and all the freshmen assembled in the Convocation Hall(:o) for the Orientation. I feel as if this was done on purpose to make the Insti life look like a complete circle. The director, various professors, and some student heads welcomed us and started explaining certain aspects on Insti life (Yeah! Insti is lingo for the institute and I am typing it, again and again, to get used to it!). But, I had other more important concerns than listening to them. It was toooo cold inside and I was wearing a half-sleeved T-shirt!!!! As soon as the lunch break was announced, I went back to the hostel, had lunch and came back to the Convocation hall. Wow! I again forgot to wear a hoodie! After lunch, we were supposed to give a basic test on English and Computer Science, which was so basic that I began to doubt the education standards at IIT Bombay.

Anyways, after all of this, we were supposed to have our Department Orientation in a seminar room in Victor Menezes Convention Centre (I initially read it as Vector Mechanics and was very amused by the silly joke). Some professors and seniors described some facts about the department which I was not listening at all due to the lack of a hoodie on my body. I had never felt a greater need for the Invisibility Cloak for reasons (1) It would make me feel warm (2) It would save me from answering questions if they were going ask any. This did not go on for very long and we were made to do some registration stuff after that.

I completed all of that and was finally done with all the formalities for the day at around 7 pm. I called my dad and met them near Convocation Hall. We went back to the hostel where we met a fourth-year student Unnishankar near my room, who said that he is the ISMP mentor for our wing. A wing here is a group of 6 rooms i.e., 12 students. As far as I know, these are students who help first-year students with personal and academic problems. Actually, he explained all of this but I was not in a mood to listen. After that, my parents finally bid me a final goodbye to me and left for our relative’s place. I was lying down on my bed, talking to my sister, explaining to her every single thing that happened. By that time, my roommate’s registration was also over and he came back (poor guy has a roll number ending with 120). We chatted for a while and then went for dinner together (in the mess just to be clear). After that, we planned to do an Insti tour next morning and went to our (respective) beds early as we had nothing to do.

The next morning, we woke up at 7 and got ready quickly (I think this is never gonna happen again). We went for the tour and saw the Gymkhana, SAC, Pool, Senior Boys :( Hostels and the Central Library which we liked very much (coz of the infrastructure and not the books or students studying of course). Two dogs chased us on our way back to our hostel and I pledged to always wear sports shoes in the Insti after somehow reaching our hostel safely.

In the afternoon, our ISMP mentor Unni (he asked us to call him that) took us to visit some important places (like the Lecture Hall Complex, … no I am not interested in listing more of these). We had a normal day after that and slept early again as we had a lecture the next morning i.e. today. We (I and my roommate) woke up in time and got ready well before the lecture time. The lecture was of the course CS101 (Ah! The irony!) We reached the Lecture Hall Complex and attended the lecture. The professor was really enthusiastic and swore (in at least 5 languages) that each one of us will be able to program after this course. Unni again visited us that afternoon and we were asked to learn each other’s names (I’m very bad at this). He also taught us some fun games for passing time until we don’t feel the academic burden.

I have had dinner, and I am now writing this. Now, when I think about my decision of choosing Mech@IITB, I feel that it is neither right nor wrong at this moment. The decision will become what I make of it, and I pledge to put in my best efforts to turn it into a fruitful one. If my future self will read this a few years from now and smile at this thought, the decision would have turned out right! Oh! It’s 23:46 and I am going to sleep now. I have a lecture at 8:30 tomorrow morning and I don’t want to miss my breakfast! Good Night!
