---
layout: post
title: Day 4
subtitle: How to spend the break productively
bigimg: /img/images.jpg
image: /img/holiday-2103171_960_720-1 Cropped.jpg
date:  2020-03-28 13:51:00 +05:30
---



THINGS THAT CAN BE DONE IN SUMMERS?

Q) I am a fresher and I want to spend my time productively in summers and what to do things in summers what should I do?

1)Academic Council
i)You can attend various bootcamps in the institute as a part of NTSS & TSS
  Link for the same - https://gymkhana.iitb.ac.in/~ugacademics/learnerspace/index.php
ii)SURP-Summer Undergraduate Research Program
Link for the same -https://gymkhana.iitb.ac.in/~ugacademics/surp/?fbclid=IwAR0ee5bfuIzxTJI5VZoB2EEby46e0jsZY6aY4_SIsWTvuuS9-Ib_wOoobJU
iii)Project under a professor - You can approach professor of ANY department and ask for a project or something based upon your interests.
How to get a project under a professor?
Follow EnPoWER’s Page on UGAC they have written a comprehensive guide on how to get projects from professors and how to approach them.
https://www.facebook.com/enpoweriitb/ - Link of EnPoWER’s Facebook page

2)Cultural Council
i)You can do ICSP (Institute Cultural Summer project) introduced for the first time in the institute this time. I am not sure how will it go but I think it will be fairly interesting as well!
ii)Online Challenges by the Council
Trust me you can get to learn a lot from them ; it will be great even if you give most of them a try atleast once and pick them up over the course of time.
iii)Cultural workshops - there are also workshops by ICC (Institute Cultural Council) for cultural related activities.

3)Technical Council
i)ITSP
You can do ITSP (institute Technical Summer project) a 40 day (maximum) project in which you have to design something from scratch on your own. 
ii)SoC (Summer of Code) - these things can be done from home as well. I guess SOC’s deadline is near around 3rd May. You need to read up some material and then form a proposal on how you would approaching the problem. Based on that you will be selected. I think if the proposal is good and you have done enough effort you will be selected.
iii)Summer of School (SoS) - you have to select a topic of learning learn things on it. In the end you have to prepare a report based on which you will be evaluated and given a participation certificate. Mentors are allocated to you so that you can approach them in case of need.

4)Sports Council
i)Sports camps - There are various levels of sports camps organized by the sports council and the institute you can join them and learn/get better at a particular sport. 
You should not overload yourself in Summers. You should do a limited number of things and enjoy your vacations as well! Enjoying life is very very important & at the same time keeping yourself busy and doing something productive is equally important.
THINGS YOU CAN DO IN THE INSTITUTE

5)NCC

Tech Teams - If you are already a part of a tech team you can say here and work on their projects along with their team!

Summer course TA in any course

THINGS YOU CAN DO OUTSIDE OF THE INSTITUTE
Online courses - there are many online courses which are free and some are paid too (not a very high cost)
Coursera.org
NPTEL (IIT Courses)
CDEEP (Lectures of IIT)
IITBX (Coursera for IIT Bombay)
EdX
Udemy (most of them are paid courses) - Quality of courses I feel is really good! I have some courses if you want I can upload them on drive or you can come to my hostel and take them. I have the following - 
Advanced C++
Deutsch Intensiv (German Course)
MS Excel Tutorial
Getting Started with C++
Photoshop Tutorial
Udemy - Learn Photoshop, Web Design & Profitable Freelancing
udemy.com - The Complete Web Development Course - Learn By Building Apps (by Brutal Storm)
I have lots of others as well if you want I can give you on a pendrive/hard drive.
Learning a Coding language/logics - there are infinitely many sites available to learn a language/coding
I would advise to ask someone who is good at coding/WnCC people to get some resources from you can learn coding etc.
If you aren’t able to connect with anyone just let me know I’ll connect you to someone
Learn Touch typing - It is a very very important skill and I think your efficiency can drastically improve from learning this skill. Requires some patience but ROI (return on investment) is very high.  - https://www.typingclub.com/ 
Learn a language? - get better at a new language ( Ich lerne Deutsch in meine Urlaube) - cannot understand this? Because of language barrier. Again would require patience.
Learn driving a four wheeler - would come in handy for road trips throughout the institute life :p
Look up upon resume and resources. Try to jot down some points for your resume etc.. So that you are not left at the last moment. I can share my resume resources wali drive if you guys want!
Competitions of case studies etc… - there are a lot of competitions that come through either the institute or are independent. Eg- 
DRDO challenge (institute promoted)
Smart India hackathon (institute promoted)
HDFC bank Challenge
Yes Bank case study challenge
Texas instruments competition
There is a competition that recently came - https://www.vguard.in/bigideatech/index


Overall, my advice would be don’t waste time in your summers. Enjoy your time out. Do some productive things, play some sport, find a good hobby to spend time with when you are alone, spend time with your family (you will have very very less time from second year onwards!), watch some TV series (not too much, don’t get addicted and binge watch it). Don’t do things just for the sake of resume/room retention. These two things can be secondary motivation but I think to complete any task you need to have a proper primary strong motivation and these two reasons are definitely not one of them! I think that is it mostly. If you have any doubts, feel free to contact me!

Most of the article is taken 
