---
layout: post
title: Day 5
subtitle: The Dark Knight
image: /img/06jokers-ranked-ledger-superJumbo Cropped.jpg
bigimg: /img/Dark-Knight.jpg
date: 2020-03-26 02:51:00 +05:30
---
Before the Joker, Gotham was a mess. Entire sections of the city were closed off due to madness, organized crime ran rampant, and the majority of important city officials were wildly corrupt. The city even tolerated a renegade vigilante who ran around wearing a rubber suit (Okay, special armor and carbon fiber, but they don't know that).

According to generalzee, the bank the Joker robs in the beginning of the film is controlled by the mafia. Not only does the Joker kill most of his team of expert bank robbers, but he never was really in it for the money. The robbery was actually to lure Lau out of hiding. Joker knew that once he was exposed the Batman would swoop in to extradite him. Everything from Harvey Dent's death to the people of Gotham choosing not to blow each other up was just part of the plan.

In the end Gotham is actually clean. It wasn't because of Harvey, who died too soon to do any good, except as a martyr, and it wasn't because of Batman who was ostracized and treated like the criminal such a vigilante truly is for 8 years. Gotham was safe because the Joker had cleaned up the streets. He eliminated the corrupt police, he destroyed organized crime financially, he uplifted Gotham's spirit, and he even got rid of the flying pest that had been corrupting Gotham ever since he declared himself it's protector.

Maybe everything was very well planned and executed to perfection 
